The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and knowledge of the Holy One is understanding.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart and lean not on your own understanding; in all your ways submit to him, and he will make your paths straight.
A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
The heart of man plans his way, but the Lord establishes his steps.
A friend loves at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.
Commit your work to the Lord, and your plans will be established.
Anxiety weighs down the heart, but a kind word cheers it up.
Pride goes before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall.
The Lord is my shepherd; I shall not want.
Be still, and know that I am God.
The joy of the Lord is your strength.
Your word is a lamp to my feet and a light to my path.
Delight yourself in the Lord, and he will give you the desires of your heart.
The heavens declare the glory of God, and the sky above proclaims his handiwork.
Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me.
The Lord is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear?
I will praise you, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made.
Cast your cares on the Lord and he will sustain you; he will never let the righteous be shaken.
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits.
To everything there is a season, and a time for every matter under heaven.
He has made everything beautiful in its time.
The end of the matter is better than its beginning, and patience is better than pride.
Two are better than one, because they have a good reward for their toil.
I know that whatever God does endures forever; nothing can be added to it, nor anything taken from it.
A good name is better than precious ointment.
The light of the eyes rejoices the heart, and good news refreshes the bones.
Better is a handful of quietness than two hands full of toil and a striving after wind.
Whoever trusts in his riches will fall, but the righteous will flourish like a green leaf.
Gracious words are like a honeycomb, sweetness to the soul and health to the body.
The Lord is near to all who call on him, to all who call on him in truth.
The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases; his mercies never come to an end; they are new every morning.
The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge.
O taste and see that the Lord is good; blessed is the man who takes refuge in him.
The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves the crushed in spirit.
My soul waits in silence for God only, for my hope is from him.
God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.
Be gracious to me, O God, for man tramples on me; all day long an attacker oppresses me.
He who dwells in the shelter of the Most High will abide in the shadow of the Almighty.
It is good to give thanks to the Lord, to sing praises to your name, O Most High.
Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name.
The Lord is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love.
Praise the Lord, for the Lord is good; sing to his name, for it is pleasant.
The Lord has done great things for us; we are glad.
Great is our Lord, and abundant in power; his understanding is beyond measure.
Praise him with trumpet sound; praise him with lute and harp and dancing.
Gracious is the Lord, and righteous; our God is merciful.
I have stored up your word in my heart, that I might not sin against you.
Your testimonies are wonderful; therefore my soul keeps them.
Open my eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of your law.
The earth, O Lord, is full of your steadfast love; teach me your statutes.
Trust in the Lord with all your heart; do not deceive yourselves.
The wise of heart will receive commandments, but a babbling fool will come to ruin.
Whoever walks in integrity walks securely, but he who makes his ways crooked will be found out.
Hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses.
A soft answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger.
Whoever is slow to anger has great understanding, but he who has a hasty temper exalts folly.
A glad heart makes a cheerful face, but by sorrow of heart the spirit is crushed.
Better is a little with the fear of the Lord than great treasure and trouble with it.
The name of the Lord is a strong tower; the righteous man runs into it and is safe.
The glory of young men is their strength, but the splendor of old men is their gray hair.
